Adds draft SegmentedControl docs (#2081)
primer/react: docs/content/SegmentedControl.mdx

---
title: SegmentedControl
status: Draft

> description: Used to select an option from a short list and immediately apply the selection

Reviewer: Could we write this in the same style as other descriptions in [primer/component-metadata](https://github.com/primer/component-metadata#metadata) so it can eventually be moved there?

```suggestion
description: Use a segmented control to let users select an option from a short list and immediately apply the selection
```

---

## Examples

### Simple

```jsx live drafts

> <SegmentedControl aria-label="File view">

Reviewer: How would you indicate which Button is selected?

Author: By passing `selected` to the `SegmentedControl.Button`

Reviewer: If it'll be common for consumers to explicitly set the `selected` prop, could we show that in the examples? Similar to how `aria-current` is set in most of the `NavList` examples: https://primer-d954104e87-13348165.drafts.github.io/NavList

>   <SegmentedControl.Item>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>

Reviewer 2: How do you feel about `<SegmentedControl.Button>`? instead of `Item`

  <SegmentedControl.Item>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
</SegmentedControl>
```

### With icons and labels

```jsx live drafts
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view">

>   <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={EyeIcon}>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>

Reviewer 2: nice! `leadingIcon` feels like Button's `leadingIcon`

  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={FileCodeIcon}>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={PeopleIcon}>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
</SegmentedControl>
```

### With icons only

```jsx live drafts
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view">
  <SegmentedControl.IconItem icon={EyeIcon} aria-label="Preview" />
  <SegmentedControl.IconItem icon={FileCodeIcon} aria-label="Raw" />
  <SegmentedControl.IconItem icon={PeopleIcon} aria-label="Blame" />
</SegmentedControl>

> ```

Author: Alternate idea:
```jsx
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view" hideLabels>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={EyeIcon}>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={FileCodeIcon}>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={PeopleIcon}>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
</SegmentedControl>
```

Reviewer 2: How do you feel about using aria-label instead of `hideLabels`

```jsx
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view">
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={EyeIcon} aria-label="Preview" />
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={FileCodeIcon} aria-label="Raw" />
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={PeopleIcon} aria-label="Blame" />
</SegmentedControl>
```

Author: I'm good with
```
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view">
  <SegmentedControl.IconButton icon={EyeIcon} aria-label="Preview" />
  <SegmentedControl.IconButton icon={FileCodeIcon} aria-label="Raw" />
  <SegmentedControl.IconButton icon={PeopleIcon} aria-label="Blame" />
</SegmentedControl>
```

I think the only difference between that and what I have now is the name `IconButton` instead of `Item`

Author: I'm good with
```
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view">
  <SegmentedControl.IconButton icon={EyeIcon} aria-label="Preview" />
  <SegmentedControl.IconButton icon={FileCodeIcon} aria-label="Raw" />
  <SegmentedControl.IconButton icon={PeopleIcon} aria-label="Blame" />
</SegmentedControl>
```

I think the only difference between that and what I have now is the name `IconButton` instead of `Item`

### With labels hidden on smaller viewports

```jsx live drafts

> <SegmentedControl aria-label="File view" variant={{narrow: 'hideLabels', regular: 'none'}}>

Reviewer: It doesn't look like the `variant` is documented in the `Props` section

Author: Good catch. Will add...

  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={EyeIcon}>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={FileCodeIcon}>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={PeopleIcon}>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
</SegmentedControl>

> ```

Author: Alternate idea:
```jsx
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view" variant={{narrow: 'hideLabels', regular: 'none'}}>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={EyeIcon}>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={FileCodeIcon}>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={PeopleIcon}>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
</SegmentedControl>
```

### Convert to a dropdown on smaller viewports

```jsx live drafts
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view" asDropdown={{narrow: true, large: false}}>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={EyeIcon}>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={FileCodeIcon}>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={PeopleIcon}>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
</SegmentedControl>

> ```

Author: Alternate idea:
```jsx
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view" variant={{narrow: 'dropdown', regular: 'none'}}>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={EyeIcon}>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={FileCodeIcon}>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item leadingIcon={PeopleIcon}>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
</SegmentedControl>
```

Reviewer 2: I like the idea this alternate of using variant for dropdown more!

Reviewer: What would happen if the variant was "compact" and the buttons didn't have any icons?

Author: I don't think anything would happen because there would be no icons to hide

### Fill width of parent

```jsx live drafts

> <SegmentedControl block aria-label="File view">

Reviewer 2: Do we have an example of this already? This seems to come up often, would be nice to have the same prop for it - block / fullWidth

I think in Button, we went in favor of sx={{width: '100%'}} instead of `fullWidth`, I don't remember the exact reason though cc @pksjce

Author: I went with `block` because that's what I've seen on other components. I'm also fine with `sx={{width: '100%'}}`

Reviewer 2: I like it, I'm team block :D

Reviewer: During our engineering sync, we decided to move forward with a `fullWidth` prop. @mperrotti will write a brief ADR for this decision.

</SegmentedControl>
```

### With a label and caption on the left

```jsx live drafts
<Box display="flex">
  <Box flexGrow={1}>
    <Text fontSize={2} fontWeight="bold" id="scLabel-vert" display="block">
      File view
    </Text>
    <Text color="fg.subtle" fontSize={1} id="scCaption-vert" display="block">
      Change the way the file is viewed
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <SegmentedControl aria-labelledby="scLabel-vert" aria-describedby="scCaption-vert">
    <SegmentedControl.Item>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>
    <SegmentedControl.Item>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
    <SegmentedControl.Item>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
  </SegmentedControl>
</Box>
```

### With a label above and caption below

```jsx live drafts
<FormControl>
  <FormControl.Label id="scLabel-horiz">File view</FormControl.Label>
  <SegmentedControl aria-labelledby="scLabel-horiz" aria-describedby="scCaption-horiz">
    <SegmentedControl.Item>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>
    <SegmentedControl.Item>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
    <SegmentedControl.Item>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
  </SegmentedControl>
  <FormControl.Caption id="scCaption-horiz">Change the way the file is viewed</FormControl.Caption>

> </FormControl>

Reviewer 2: Ooh that's interesting! Is this in the context of a Form or otherwise as well?

Author: Otherwise as well. This component is _not_ a substitute for `RadioGroup`.

Reviewer 2: The name threw me off a bit 😅

```

### With something besides the first option selected

```jsx live drafts
<SegmentedControl aria-label="File view">
  <SegmentedControl.Item>Preview</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item selected>Raw</SegmentedControl.Item>
  <SegmentedControl.Item>Blame</SegmentedControl.Item>
</SegmentedControl>
```

### With a selection change handler

```jsx live drafts
<SegmentedControl
  aria-label="File view"
  onChange={selectedIndex => {
    alert(`Segment ${selectedIndex}`)

>   }}

Reviewer 2: Because the items are buttons, adding an onClick would also automatically work. Do we want to support both onClick on item and onChange on parent?

Author: I like the `onChange` on the parent so that we don't have to add repetitive `onClick` handlers to each `SegmentedControl.Button`

>
  <SegmentedControl.Button>Preview</SegmentedControl.Button>
  <SegmentedControl.Button>Raw</SegmentedControl.Button>
  <SegmentedControl.Button>Blame</SegmentedControl.Button>
</SegmentedControl>
```

## Props

### SegmentedControl

<PropsTable>
  <PropsTableRow name="aria-label" type="string" />
  <PropsTableRow name="aria-labelledby" type="string" />
  <PropsTableRow name="aria-describedby" type="string" />
  <PropsTableRow name="fullWidth" type="boolean" description="Whether the control fills the width of its parent" />
  <PropsTableRow name="loading" type="boolean" description="Whether the selected segment is being calculated" />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="onChange"
    type="(selectedIndex?: number) => void"
    description="The handler that gets called when a segment is selected"
  />
</PropsTable>

### SegmentedControl.Button

<PropsTable>
  <PropsTableRow name="aria-label" type="string" />
  <PropsTableRow name="leadingIcon" type="Component" description="The leading icon comes before item label" />

>   <PropsTableRow name="selected" type="boolean" description="Whether the segment is selected" />
> </PropsTable>

Reviewer: Could you add the `sx` props and the `ref` prop to these tables?
```suggestion
  <PropsTableRow name="selected" type="boolean" description="Whether the segment is selected" />
  <PropsTableSxRow />
  <PropsTableRefRow refType="HTMLButtonElement" />
</PropsTable>
```
